update: Add Youtube's Invidious blocks, and solution is to use apps (#2673)
privacyguides/privacyguides.org: docs/frontends.md

</div>

## YouTube
<div class="admonition warning" markdown>
<p class="admonition-title">Warning</p>

> Google has started blocking requests from widely used IPs, including VPNs. This impacts Invidious public instances and to a lesser extent Piped public mirrors. Mobile and Desktop apps listed below can sucessfully bypass the blocking attempts { .annotate }, if you keep them updated.

Reviewer: Since the creation of this PR, I'd say that it's now the other way around: Invidious has merged [two PRs](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/4734#issuecomment-2268996911) that attempt to fix the recent issues with YouTube blocks, while there's not much activity with regard to Piped.

---
> Mobile and Desktop apps listed below can sucessfully bypass the blocking attempts [...] if you keep them updated.

Also, I don't think this is entirely true from my own testing. LibreTube fails to load videos even when the Piped proxy is disabled.

Author: LibreTube uses proxies by default, you even have to select one at startup. IMO LibreTube experience is really subpar. 
I personnaly use Grayjay, which sucesfully bypass blocking attempts. NewPipe works as well (but app too buggy to daily use).
On Desktop, Freetube works like a charm.

On the other hand, both Piped and Invidious* official instances are broken. Now, Piped is also broken, so I believe we should just recommend to use apps that don't use third-party instances.

*The instance you linked works, but is it because of the patches or just the low usage of the instance ?

Reviewer: > LibreTube uses proxies by default, you even have to select one at startup.

Right, but you have the option to disable the Piped proxy in the settings (which also advises you to use a VPN if not using Piped).

Author: I just saw that the patch was released .. today
So I guess it will come in the coming days.

BTW, I asked for removal of LibreTube, bc it is unmaintained and thus broken.

Reviewer: > it is unmaintained

Uh, I would not say that an app that had its last update around a month ago is unmaintained. But yes, I do agree that it's currently broken. I'll write out on the forum  the different configurations I tried that led me to the conclusion that LibreTube is not functional at the moment.

> <div class="admonition warning" markdown>
> <p class="admonition-title">Warning</p>
> Google has started blocking requests from widely used IPs, including VPNs. This impacts Invidious public instances Piped public mirrors. Mobile and Desktop apps that directly connect to Google servers can more reliably bypass the blocking attempts { .annotate }, if you keep them updated.
> 
> 1. Last checked: 2024-07-31

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="admonition warning" markdown>
<p class="admonition-title">Warning</p>
Google has started [requiring logins](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/4734#issuecomment-2156334756) for every YouTube client, including frontends. This impacts public [Invidious](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/4734) instances, [Piped](https://github.com/TeamPiped/Piped/issues/3658) instances, and apps which use these APIs. Desktop and mobile apps that directly connect to Google's servers can more reliably bypass such blocking attempts if you keep them updated.
{ .annotate }

</div>

1. Last checked: 2024-07-31
```

I fixed the syntax so the warning admonition doesn't encompass everything under it. I also cleaned up the wording and clarified the situation regarding the YouTube blocks. An Invidious instance maintainer debunked the claim of YouTube banning IPs [here](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/4734#issuecomment-2156334756).

</div>

## YouTube
<div class="admonition warning" markdown>
<p class="admonition-title">Warning</p>

> Google has started [requiring logins](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/4734#issuecomment-2156334756) for every YouTube client, including frontends. This impacts public [Invidious](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/4734) instances, [Piped](https://github.com/TeamPiped/Piped/issues/3658) instances, and apps which use these APIs. Desktop and mobile apps that directly connect to Google's servers can more reliably bypass such blocking attempts if you keep them updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google has started blocking requests from widely used IPs, including VPNs. This impacts public [Invidious](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/4734) instances, [Piped](https://github.com/TeamPiped/Piped/issues/3658) instances, and apps which use these APIs. Desktop and mobile apps that directly connect to Google's servers can more reliably bypass such blocking attempts if you keep them updated.
```

> <div class="admonition warning" markdown>
> <p class="admonition-title">Warning</p>
> Google has started [requiring logins](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/4734#issuecomment-2156334756) for every YouTube client, including frontends. This impacts public [Invidious](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/4734) instances, [Piped](https://github.com/TeamPiped/Piped/issues/3658) instances, and apps which use these APIs. Desktop and mobile apps that directly connect to Google's servers can more reliably bypass such blocking attempts if you keep them updated.
> { .annotate }
> 
> </div>
> 
> 1. Last checked: 2024-07-31

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="admonition warning" markdown>
<p class="admonition-title">Warning</p>
Google has started [requiring logins](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/4734#issuecomment-2156334756) for every YouTube client, including frontends. This impacts public [Invidious](https://github.com/iv-org/invidious/issues/4734) instances, [Piped](https://github.com/TeamPiped/Piped/issues/3658) instances, and apps which use these APIs. Desktop and mobile apps that directly connect to Google's servers can more reliably bypass such blocking attempts if you keep them updated.
{ .annotate }

1. Last checked: 2024-07-31

</div>
```
